1


farming is the act or process of working the ground, planting seeds, and growing edible plants. 
You can also describe raising animals for milk or meat as farming… 

Farming is a great way to describe the lifestyle and work of people whose jobs are in the agriculture industry.” The noun “farm,” which derives from the Medieval Latin Firma, originally meant, “A lease on farm land.” 
7


There are five branches of agriculture: 
Agronomy, Agronomy focuses on soil and how different crops react to different kinds of soil.
Agriculture Engineering, Ag engineering focuses on the various machines used in farming and how those machines work. 
Horticulture, Horticulture focuses on growing varieties of fruits and vegetables. 
Agricultural Economics, Ag economics focuses on the business and finances of farming. 
Animal Science, Animal science focuses on the right way to raise animals to maximize their utility. 
11


Sometimes referred to as soil quality, soil health is the continued ability of soil to act as an ecosystem for plants, animals, and humans. The term “soil health” is used to remind farmers that the soil contains living organisms that help us produce food. 
12


A food desert is an often-impoverished area that does not have access to affordable healthy food options. According to USDA, “a food desert consists of a low-income census tract residing at least 0.5 miles (0.80 km) in urban areas (10 miles (16 km) in rural areas ) or 1 mile (1.6 km) away in urban areas (20 miles in rural areas) from a large grocery store.”  It is estimated that about 23.5 Americans live in food deserts. 
19


There are four major factors that affect crop production during the farming process: 
Nutrients. There are 18 different nutrients required for crop production. Nutrients have a direct impact on things like protein production, photosynthesis, and root, shoot, and leaf development. 
Water Availability. The amount of water your crops receive plays a direct role in the amount of crops you produce. Too little water and your crops will shrivel up and die. Too much water and you end up with wasted water, energy, and labor. 
Climate. The climate your crops are planted in heavily influences crop production. Factors such as humidity, temperature, and wind can wreak havoc on your crops. One of the major benefits of farming in a controlled environment, like a shipping container or greenhouse, is it allows you to control the climate 24/7.  
Pests and diseases. Pests and diseases damage your crops directly by eating or destroying the plants themselves. But pests also destroy your crops in less obvious ways like damaging plant roots, altering the ability of the plant to absorb nutrients.  
22


The term ‘digital farming’ refers to technologies and trends being used to change the way growers control their farm operations and analyze their yield performance. 

23

Digital farming gives farmers a better view and understanding of their soil, their crops, and their equipment.
24


Digital farming can be broken up into three different areas: precision, decision, and cultivation.
25


Digital farming is all about giving farmers real-time insights into their farm so they can analyze and make optimal decisions for their farms. 
26


Indoor farming is the practice and process of growing crops and produce in vertically stacked layers. These layers use a controlled-environment agriculture (CEA), which optimizes plant growth by using soilless farming techniques.
30


Vertical farming is the practice and process of growing crops and produce within a vertically stacked layer. As a type of indoor farming, vertical farming uses CEA or controlled environment agriculture, which helps to optimize plant growth by using different techniques like hydroponics, aquaponics, and aeroponics.
34


A greenhouse is a building with glass walls and ceiling/roof that are used to grow plants. Greenhouses are able to stay warm inside using sunlight to warm both the plants and the air within. Sunlight is also used for photosynthesis, though supplemental artificial lighting can also be used.
35


Benefits of a greenhouse include having fresh greens, vegetables, and fruit; a longer growing season; protection from pest and insects; and the ability to grow items that aren’t available using traditional means or during off seasons.
36


Some disadvantages of a greenhouse include choosing a proper location that will be able to capture the sunlight during all seasons and temperature and ventilation management, so crops don’t die, trapping pests or diseases within.
37


Aeroponics is the process of growing plants within an air or mist environment. It’s one of the six basic types of hydroponic plant-growing method where plants are suspended with the roots exposed in the air.
Every few minutes, a nutrient solution is sprayed directly on the roots itself. Aeroponics is considered the most technologically advanced hydroponic method.
38


Crop rotations are when farmers grow different types of crops at different seasons. For example, growing lettuce in the spring and then cauliflower on the same land in the summer. 
The point of crop rotation is to not deplete only one set of nutrients from the soil, reducing soil erosion and increasing soil fertility.  
39


Transplanting is taking a rooted crop and replanting it elsewhere. Transplanting is common practice for transferring baby plants from their optimal sprouting conditions, a nursery for example, to another location, like outdoors.  
40


Irrigation is the process of controlling water supply through artificial means, such as sprinklers or pipes. Irrigation provides a regular, consistent amount of water to crops, removing the need to rely on rain. It also improves production and protects crops from droughts.  

